---
title: Bagels
date: 2021-05-25 12:00:00
tags:
    - Baking
category: food
keywords:
    - Baking
    - Bread
---

# Bagels

| Prep time     | Cook Time     | Additional Time   | Total Time    |
|---------------|---------------|-------------------|---------------|
| 20 minutes    | 20 minutes    | 1 hour 20 minutes | 2 hours       |

## Ingredients

### Bagels

- 6 g active dry yeast

- 19 g granulated sugar

- 300 ml warm water (± 60 ml)

- 440 g bread flour (60g of kneading)

- 6 g salt

### Bath

- Pot of water

- Brown sugar

## Methodology

1. In 120ml of the warm water, add the sugar and yeast and let sit for five minutes. Then stir the yeast and sugar until dissolved.

2. Mix the flour and salt in a large bowl. Add yeast and sugar mixture.

3. Pour 80ml of warm water to the flour. Mix and stir in the rest of the water (the 100ml that is remaining), as needed. Depending on where you live, you may need to add an additional couple tablespoons to about ¼ cup/60ml of water. You want a moist and firm dough after you have mixed it.

4. Knead the dough for 10 minutes until smooth and elastic.

5. Lightly brush a large bowl with oil and turn the dough to coat. Cover the bowl with a damp dish towel. Let rise in a warm place until the dough has doubled in size. Punch the dough down, and let it rest for another 10 minutes.

6. Divide the dough into 8 pieces. Shape each piece into a round.

7. Press into the center of each dough ball to form a ring. Stretch the ring to about ⅓ the diameter of the bagel.

8. Cover with a damp kitchen towel and rest for 10 minutes. Preheat your oven to 220ºC.

9. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Reduce the heat. Lower the bagels into the water. Boil on each side for 2 minutes.

10. Add topings. Transfer to a parchment-lined baking sheet.

11. Bake for 20 - 25 minutes, or until golden brown.

[Source](https://www.sophisticatedgourmet.com/2009/10/new-york-style-bagel-recipe/)
