---
title: 48 Hour Focaccia
date: 2021-05-25 18:00:00
tags:
    - Baking
    - Focaccia
category: Food
keywords:
    - Focaccia
    - Baking
    - Bread
draft: true
---

# Focaccia

| Prep time     | Cook Time     | Additional Time   | Total Time    |
|---------------|---------------|-------------------|---------------|
| 20 minutes    | 20 minutes    | 1 hour 20 minutes | 2 hours       |

## Ingredients

### Focaccia


## Methodology


Source:

[source1](https://www.seriouseats.com/easy-roasted-garlic-focaccia-no-knead-bread-recipe)

## Ingrdients

### Focaccia

- 1 whole head garlic

- 5 tablespoons (75ml) extra-virgin olive oil, divided

- Kosher salt, for seasoning

- 500g all-purpose or bread flour (17 1/2 ounces; about 3 1/4 cups)

- 15g kosher salt (1/2 ounce; about 1 tablespoon)

- 4g instant yeast (0.15 ounce; about 1 teaspoon)

- 325g water (11 1/2 ounces; about 1 1/2 cups minus 1 tablespoon)

### Garlic Butter

- 2 tablespoons (30g) unsalted butter

- 2 teaspoons dried oregano

- 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes


## Directions

1. For the Focaccia: Adjust oven rack to center position and preheat oven to 350°F (180°C). Remove 4 cloves garlic from head and set aside. Place remaining head in the center of a sheet of aluminum foil. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon (15ml) olive oil and season with salt. Wrap tightly with foil and place in an oven-safe cast iron, carbon steel, or stainless steel skillet, then transfer to oven. Roast until garlic is completely tender, about 1 hour. Remove from oven and refrigerate until ready to use the next day.

2. Combine flour, salt, yeast, and water in a large bowl. (To account for rising, the bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough.) Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains.

3. Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that edges are well sealed, then let rest on the countertop for at least 8 hours and up to 24 hours. Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl.

4. Add 3 tablespoons (45ml) olive oil to a 12-inch cast iron skillet or large cake pan. Transfer dough to pan by tipping it out of the bowl in one large blob. Turn dough to coat in oil. Using a flat palm, press dough around skillet, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and sides of pan. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough stand at room temperature for 2 hours. After the first hour, adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).

5. At the end of the 2 hours, dough should mostly fill skillet, up to its edge. Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear. Lift up one edge of dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape. Repeat, moving around dough, until no air bubbles are left underneath and dough is evenly spread around skillet. Peel roasted garlic cloves and break up large cloves into 2 or 3 pieces each. Scatter roasted garlic evenly over surface of dough, then push down on each clove until it is embedded in a deep well of dough.

6. Transfer skillet to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom appears golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 16 to 24 minutes. If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan on a burner and cook over medium heat, moving pan around to cook evenly, until bottom of focaccia is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes.

7. Meanwhile, Make the Garlic Butter: Mince 4 reserved raw cloves of garlic. Combine remaining 1 tablespoon (15ml) olive oil with butter in a small skillet and melt over medium-low heat. Add garlic, oregano, and pepper flakes and cook, stirring, until fragrant and garlic is just beginning to brown, about 1 minute. Transfer to a small bowl and season with salt.

8. When focaccia has finished baking, spread garlic butter over top with a spoon. Transfer to a cutting board, allow to cool slightly, slice, and serve. Extra bread should be stored in a brown paper bag at room temperature for up to 2 days. Reheat in a 300°F (150°C) oven for about 10 minutes before serving.





[Source2](https://www.seriouseats.com/easy-no-knead-focaccia)

## Ingredients

- 500 grams bread or all-purpose flour (17.5 ounces; about 3 1/4 cups), see note

- 10 grams Diamond Crystal kosher salt (0.4 ounce; 2 1/2 teaspoons); for table salt, use about half as much by volume or the same weight

- 4 grams instant dry yeast, such as SAF (0.1 ounce; 1/2 packet or 1 rounded teaspoon)

- 400 grams room temperature water (14.1 ounces; 1 1/2 cups plus 3 tablespoons)

- 68 grams extra-virgin olive oil (2.4 ounces; 5 tablespoons), divided

- Coarse sea salt, such as Maldon or fleur de sel

## Methodology

1. For the Dough: Combine flour, salt, and yeast in large bowl and whisk together until homogenous. Add water and stir with wooden spoon until no dry flour remains, about 2 minutes. Add 20 grams (0.7 ounces; 1 1/2 tablespoons) olive oil and stir to incorporate, using hands if necessary to work oil into dough. Cover with plastic wrap, then let rest at room temperature for 1 hour.

2. Remove plastic wrap (but don't discard), and, using a lightly greased bowl scraper, fold dough over itself by lifting and folding edge of dough toward middle. Turn bowl 45 degrees and fold dough again; repeat turning and folding motion 4 more times (total of 6 folds). Cover tightly with reserved plastic wrap and let rest for 15 minutes.

3. Repeat this entire folding process once more. Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 18 hours or up to 3 days.

4. Baking the Focaccia: Remove dough from refrigerator and let sit at room temperature for 10 minutes. Sprinkle the top of the dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a lightly-floured work surface. Shape it by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.

5. Pour 27 grams (1 ounce; 2 tablespoons) olive oil into 10- or 12-inch cast iron skillet and spread over entire inner surface (including rim) with your hands. Transfer dough to pan, turn to coat in oil, position seam-side-down, and spread gently with your hands to mostly fill the pan (don't worry if dough doesn't fully stretch to edges). Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature until dough is very soft and puffy and nearly doubled in volume, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

6. One hour before baking, adjust oven rack to lower-middle position. Place baking stone or Baking Steel on it, and preheat oven to 500°F (260°C). Using your fingertips, gently press and stretch dough to evenly fill all corners of the pan. Lift up one edge of the dough to let air bubbles underneath escape and repeat, moving around the dough until there are no large air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan. Using fingertips, gently press on surface of dough to create small dimples. Drizzle remaining 20 grams (0.7 ounces; 1 1/2 tablespoons) olive oil over top of dough, then sprinkle with coarse sea salt.

7. Transfer skillet to oven, positioning it on top of baking stone, and bake, rotating pan halfway through baking, until top is golden brown and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 25 to 30 minutes. Let focaccia cool in skillet for 5 minutes, then use a thin spatula to transfer focaccia to wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet. Spoon or brush any olive oil left in the skillet over the focaccia, and let cool for at least 10 minutes before slicing. Serve warm or at room temperature.